Here is my advice.
Actually, I already did
this step on the fly
here where I fixed
the listToDict function.
Here's my advice when it
comes to best practices here.
You want to make sure that
type params are used more than
once in a function signature.
Here's a case where it's not, where we're
creating a function called returnAs and
we take in an argument,
that's an any, we return a T.
And first off,
It's gonna default to something
that's not very useful.
It'll force us to explicitly
provide a type param here.
Yeah, okay, this will be a number,
we could do this too.
It's just not a very safe, right?
All we're doing here is casting.
This is literally, the way we would
describe this is convenient casting.
And I don't consider this to
be a valid use of generics.
Generics, these type params, need to show
up more than once in a function signature.
Because essentially what we're doing
is we're describing relationships
between things.
For example, here we're saying
there is a relationship between
the type of the argument you pass me and
the type of what I returned.
Now, it's not exactly the same type, but
I'm using the type you gave me
to create that return type.
If you look at our listToDict function,
look how many relationships there are.
There's the array of
things that we pass in.
That has to align with the callback
that we use to determine the ID
of each item in the list of PhoneInfos.
And that all is used to create
the right return type, here.
So these are places where there are clear
relationships between the things.
That's the point of the type param,
effectively.
It's to connect all of
these things together and
still give you that level of flexibility.
Whereas, and you'll note,
it's not a coincidence,
inference is doing a lot for us here.
It's doing nothing for
us down here because there are no
relationships to define here.
The type parameter is just
used as a return type.
I'm not doing this, right?
Like here, okay, it's trying.
Now it's saying, all right, string.
You thought this was a string, right?
But it's not.
Here it's trying to infer.
It's just passing it straight through.
This is like the identity function,
f of x equals x.
So just try to make sure that
you are using type params
more than once in a function signature.
And if you wanna learn more,
take intermediate TypeScript,
because we will pick up right
where we left off right here.
So Luis asks is it, can we show
an example of two generic types?
Sure, here we go.
So look at that, makeTuple.
There's a number, number.
There's a string and window
intersected with type of global this.
And you can see I have to type params.
Inference is working on both T and U.
We're using both type params twice,
once in the arguments list,
once in the return type.
Here's how inference is working for
us, check that out, number number.
Here it's string.
And then there's our window and
type of globalThis.
So there's an example using to
two type params, two generics.
I assume that's what you meant.
Generics described as the kind of
code you can write with type params.
Cuz it's generic, right, we have a
reusable listToDict function now that can
be used without losing type information
on a variety of different lists.